Fan Feng
ART 175
Reading Response of Digital Performance

Then beginning of this reading mention after computer technology had an explosive developed in past decades in the twentieth-century, digital media have been used a lot in different areas of performance. People use digital media as the installation in performance, such as the projection and LED display; they also use digital media to doing the documentary and propagandize for the performer, such as the CD-ROM and Web. This is an obvious change, in this year’s CCTV New Year's Gala in China, the whole stage is built by mass of LED display, all the background and stage setting are the image from the LED display. In our everyday live, the theme parks used projection mapping and different interactive equipment to reproduce the scene from animation or science fiction film. The new media also make people easily to access the performance, people can stand in front screen and watch different performances from the world. There is an interesting thing, after the people stop watch performance in live because the convenience the digital media, the performance artist uses digital media to create more live effects to engage people to come back and watch.

The new media is not only changing the environment of performance stage; it also changes the performance artists themselves. In Japan, the audio companies developed some virtual singer for composer program them to sing, such as the Hatsune Miku who’s the most popular virtual singer in the world. People also use 3D modeling to build different virtual avatars for this virtual singer to dance and performance. The performers are not necessary to be a human. Certainly, human is still necessary to create and programming the performance in the backstage, until the computer can create a performance by their own.

The reading also mention the New media is not something completely new, they are developed from many traditional media, such as the QWERTY keyboard and screen of the computer are something developed around a centurial. The nature of creating art are still same. Illustrator drawing with a tablet styluses are almost like drawing on a paper with a pen. Many art forms only change the media from analog to digital. A virtual performer is a extend of the puppet show. How every, the new media did give us a lot of change, digitalization makes many things cheaper and easier. People save lot material and labor than before by working on a computer. Even some of the higher cost equipment like LED display are reusable. The creative cycle becomes shorter, and the barrier of creative are lower. The new media also make publish easier, creators can publish they work at any time. Different resources are sharing online for people to access. More people became the creator, and more works are created. Even the quality of works maybe unevenness, but more good works will be created.
