Discussion on Steve Dixons Digital Performance

This article discusses the long standing history of Digital Performances. Sometimes this art can be very remote as with an example of the Gertrude Stein Reporatory Theatre creating art remotely from multiple locations to very invasive and interpersonal with artists like Eduardo Kac implanting his whole body with computer censors. The author goes on to discuss how digital performance is an extremely broad term and still relies very much on human interaction and less on automation. Internet communication is more or less a virtual performance of oneself and digital performance more or less a commentary on how technology affects our lives. The author wishes to discuss the technology and then figure out why the artist uses that medium and what it means for the final piece.  The author feels like this technology is recycling other mediums.

I found this article neat to read because growing up in the early nineties, I have felt to be a child of this technology. I used chat rooms, AOL instant messenger, Second Life, Daily Confession.com and the like to help bring me out of my shell even if it ended up just being to get the courage to talk to someone in real time. I knew Digital Media has been around in Art for a long time via the Performing Arts. I was curious to learn more about the choreographer Yacov Sharir whom I discovered had founded a dance program for the deaf.  An article in the Washington Post by George Jackson descibed the dancing as proficient and in unison inspite of the choreographer thinking too “episodly,” and the occassional random sounds caused by exertion that might be foreign to a non deaf audience. This idea about using art for therapy is nothing new but perhaps we can do more with it through digital medias hand in hand connections with science.

I feel like on one hand, our society laughs at Cyborgs and jokes about artificial intelligence when they see in it popular movies like, Ai with Jude Law; but the reality is that we use it all the time. Virtual Reality is another process  that can enchance or dehance the cognisant.  According to an article on Tech Crunch, 1 in 5 Americans have a diagnosable mental disorder and that there are currently treatments for PTSD, Anxiety, lowering stress and Depression.

Works Cited
Jackson, George. " American Deaf Dance Company at Gallaudet ." The Washington Post. December 1, 1981. Accessed February 7, 2017. American Deaf Dance Company at Gallaudet .

Senson, Alex. "Virtual Reality Therapy: Treating The Global Mental Health Crisis." Crunch Network. Jan. & feb., 2016. Accessed February 7, 2017. https://techcrunch.com/2016/01/06/virtual-reality-therapy-treating-the-global-mental-health-crisis/.
